::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Propulsion Team](Propulsion-Team_142270885.html)
4.  [Testing](Testing_142273730.html)
5.  [Test Reports](Test-Reports_142273564.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Ignition System Feasibility - Small Rocket Motor - 26 Nov 19 ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
=================================================================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Harradence, William]{.author}, last modified on Dec 03,
2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
::: {.contentLayout2}
::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
### Ignition method deemed non-feasible. Not pursued. {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-SmallRocketMotor-26Nov19-Ignitionmethoddeemednon-feasible.Notpursued.}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
An ignition method comprising of a small solid rocket motor placed
inside the hybrid combustion chamber was tested. It was testing by
firing the small motor. Afterwards, the casing of the small motor and
the hybrid were examined. It was observed that although lots of heat was
generated, the casing still contained a clay or ceramic nozzle after
burnout. This poses a danger to the hybrid engine, and so this ignition
method was deemed unfeasible.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Objective and Background {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-SmallRocketMotor-26Nov19-ObjectiveandBackground}
========================

The primary objective of this test was to examine the feasibilty of
using a small hobby rocket motor as the ignition charge for a hybrid
engine. In particular, the test was to examine what remained of the
small motor after burnout, and whether or not this would safely burn up
inside the engine once it was started.

In general, hybrid ignition systems require a sustained generation of
heat with a flame temperature of at least the decomposition temperature
of nitrous oxide, which is about 900degC.  However, the ignition system
must not compromise the safety or integrity of the engine.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Method {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-SmallRocketMotor-26Nov19-Method}
======

1.  Igniter inserted in to small rocket motor and fixed in place. Motor
    used in this test was an A4-3 motor.
2.  Ignition box leads were fed through nozzle.
3.  Nozzle closure was fixed to hybrid combustion chamber, and leads
    were fed through the fuel grain.
4.  Leads were attached to small motor, with alligator clips and some
    electrical tape.
5.  Small motor was placed at the top of the hybrid combustion chamber,
    and chamber was closed with the injector head.
6.  Personel retreated to a safe distance (test conducted in Prince\'s
    Gardens).
7.  Battery connected to ignition box.
8.  Motor fired.
9.  Battery disconnected from ignition box.
10. Engine dissassembled for inspection.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Results and Observations {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-SmallRocketMotor-26Nov19-ResultsandObservations}
========================

-   Significant heat produced, fuel grain and leads were charred,
    electrical tape was melted and charred.
-   Casing was hot to the touch.
-   Some residue left in hybrid after the burn.
-   Small motor casing (cardboard) was intact, and contained a clay or
    ceramic nozzle that remained very durable after the firing.
-   Leads were difficult to fit through the nozzle with alligator clips
    attached.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Conclusion {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-SmallRocketMotor-26Nov19-Conclusion}
==========

Althought significant heat was produced over a period of about 1 second,
it was determined that the leftover casing was substantial and durable,
and could not be expected to be reliably destroyed by the ignition of
the hybrid, thus posing a safety risk. This method of ignition will not
be pursued.
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
