::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Task Summaries](Task-Summaries_142271786.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Member Tasks ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
=================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Oh, Jae]{.author} on Nov 19, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
Responsible for:

1.  Design
2.  Manufacturing & Use of tools
3.  Do tasks as instructed by subteam lead only
4.  Every task must be done by ONLY even number of members, each with a
    'buddy' to ensure work compliance before submitting for approval to
    subteam leads
5.  Decides their own tasks they must do for the launch
    1.  Does not deviate from their assigned tasks to avoid the 'too
        many hands' problem
    2.  Create a 'primary' and 'secondary' task for yourselves, what you
        need to finish first and what you expect to help with. Do not
        assume more hands to other teams will immediately make their
        task go faster. Often the opposite occurs.

Training Tactics 

1.  Training tactics to be expected (EG. Parachute folding)
    1.  Each subteam must designate 3 of their own members every week
        for this task, 10-15 minutes at most. No exceptions.
    2.  2 weeks before launch, 3 members of the recovery subteam (other
        members may be drawn if too much) will each provide 3 perfect
        parachute loading demonstrations by the end of each week.
    3.  Each parachute loading should aim to take less than 1.5 minutes
        to do.
    4.  2 successful field tests and 2 successful full assembly field
        tests required before launch is a go
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
