::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Systems](Systems_142273596.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Design Review for December 7 2019 ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
======================================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Agrawal, Devansh]{.author}, last modified on Nov 29, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
Note: See the detailed guide here: [How-to: Design
Reviews](142273599.html)

Notes for the Preliminary Design Review {#DesignReviewforDecember72019-NotesforthePreliminaryDesignReview}
---------------------------------------

\

Key Purpose for this particular review:

1.  Ensure that Sporadic Impulse is designed to a degree that gives us
    confidence that we can hit the timelines and can have a full rocket
    assembled on the launch site. 
2.  A chance for the rest of the team to be updated with the current
    rocket design.
3.  Consider manufacturability constraints, design choke points.
4.  Convince our sponsors that we can deliver the project and that it
    will be successful.
5.  If there are tests we need to run, we need to identify them. 
6.  Identify the key design risks.

\

These slides, (probably with minor modifications) will be emailed to
people who were not present for the review. As such, try to ensure your
slides can be printed easily and that animations etc won\'t hide
information. 

\

While not all the dimensions are finalised, we are really interested to
review the design idea, the assemble-ability of the rocket and identify
risks. As such, if there is a dimension that is not fixed, mark it as
not-fixed, give an estimate or bounds. 

\

A note on risks:

1.  There are many different types of risk:
    1.  Design/manufacture not completed in time, possibly causing other
        parts to fall behind schedule
    2.  Design not compatible with other parts
    3.  Parts not able to take required loads/arent compatible with
        other parts when temperatures expand and contract things
    4.  Cost overshoot
    5.  External choke points - ex. Roland doesn\'t have time to make
        our part for us now, Swagelok doesn\'t send us parts, launch
        event cancelled due to weather/sick RSO, etc.
    6.  Others\...
2.  Identify these!! Figure out if they are a show-stopper. If they are,
    we can allocate more resources 
3.  State any mitigation possible, or if it can\'t be mitigated, tell us
    and say we are trusting luck ![(big
    grin)](images/icons/emoticons/biggrin.svg){.emoticon
    .emoticon-laugh}

\

A note on costs and timelines:

1.  Costs generally should be in the design review, but may be hard to
    estimate. Please do the cost analysis if there are particularly
    expensive components in you design (more than \~£50)
2.  Timeline: identify if you need to wait for anything before you can
    start work! Identify things that can only start after you are done!
    Estimate how long it should take you to do things, if it is
    long/critical. 

\

\

\
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
