::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Task Summaries](Task-Summaries_142271786.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Responsible Engineers ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
==========================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Harayama, Sena]{.author} on Nov 23, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
Link: {#ResponsibleEngineers-Link:}
=====

<https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1EXmNLSRbAvcV1Z3qffvoEE_OEbNtFgxyMvfuYjU5sHU/edit#gid=0>

\

Summary and updates: {#ResponsibleEngineers-Summaryandupdates:}
====================

This is a new concept being introduced at ICLR, working towards the
final competition rocket, Sporadic Impulse.\
It was introduced to airframe and recovery team on 23rd of November
2019, and will be implemented straight away towards Sporadic Impulse
conceptual design freeze due on the 14th of December.

The responsible engineers is a concept borrowed from MIT Rocket team,
so [Agrawal,
Devansh](https://wiki.imperial.ac.uk/display/~dra16){.confluence-userlink
.user-mention .current-user-mention} and [Kacker,
Shreeyam](https://wiki.imperial.ac.uk/display/~sk3815){.confluence-userlink
.user-mention} are the two members who are the most experienced with it.

What it is: {#ResponsibleEngineers-Whatitis:}
===========

\
This sheet assigns parts and components of the rocket to individuals.
This person will be responsible for that part, meaning they will be held
accountable for whatever happens with the part. This does not mean that
100% of the design and manufacturing needs to be done by the responsible
person. In fact, the responsible engineers are free to get some help,
work with other people, and delegate bits of the design and
manufacturing to other members. However, they will be held accountable
to deliver the part on time and under budget. If leads or any other
people have questions regarding the current state, future strategy,
design details or engineering decisions on their part, they are expected
to be able to answer them. They will also be the ones who will be
presenting about the part during design review sessions, and will be
responsible for updating the specs of the part on Valispace.  

The responsible engineer\'s sheet is expected to evolve through time, as
the design changes. It\'s leads and subleads responsibility to make sure
all tasks and components are shown on the sheet. Members can help with
this by letting leads know if they think anything is missing from the
sheet. Members are free to edit descriptions on their part if they think
it needs some clarification. 

\
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
