::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Propulsion Team](Propulsion-Team_142270885.html)
4.  [Testing](Testing_142273730.html)
5.  [Test Reports](Test-Reports_142273564.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Ignition System Feasibility - NRX Propellant - 10 Dec 2019 ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
===============================================================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Horton, William]{.author}, last modified on Dec 11, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
::: {.contentLayout2}
::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Objective and Background {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-NRXPropellant-10Dec2019-ObjectiveandBackground}
========================

This ignition system is based on advice from the Waterloo Rocketry team.
It uses a modified version of the NRX propellant developped by Richard
Nakka :<http://www.nakka-rocketry.net/rnx_for.html>.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
\
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Procedure - Casting {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-NRXPropellant-10Dec2019-Procedure-Casting}
===================

Ignition leads were made from 1 mm copper wire, with ignition wire being
0.1 mm nichrome wire. In future, a larger nichrome wire would be
preferred.

1.  Nichrome wire was soldered to the copper terminals using a tin-based
    solder and soldering iron (use lead-based next time as this will be
    easier to handle). The nichrome was soldered in the middle of the
    terminals.
2.  KNO~3~ was weighed using the scale, then ground using a pestle and
    mortar to a fine powder.
3.  Epoxy resin was weighed in the casting cup.
4.  Epoxy hardener was weighed in the casting cup, and mixed with the
    resin.
5.  KNO~3~ was slowly added to the resin/epoxy mixture, mixing
    continuously.
6.  The mixture was then added to the combustion chamber rig and
    compressed to 1 kg cm^-2^ using the press.
7.  The mixture was left to set for 24 hours.
8.  The nichrome was wrapped around the inside of the casting, with the
    leads lying along the axis of the cylinder and secured using
    electrical tape.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Samples {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-NRXPropellant-10Dec2019-Samples}
=======

::: {.table-wrap}
  Sample   Epoxy Resin (g)   Expoxy Hardener (g)   KN03 (g)   Wire resistance (ohms)   Notes
  -------- ----------------- --------------------- ---------- ------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1        7                 1                     26         4.0                      Casting relatively stress-free. Removal from aluminium rig was fine, with some fragmenting.
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Testing {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-NRXPropellant-10Dec2019-Testing}
=======

**Test with sample 1**

The puck was removed from the wax casting rig and the nichrome was taped
around the outside. Upon igniting, the nichrome lit the puck but similar
charring happened as in the previous tests.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Conclusions {#IgnitionSystemFeasibility-NRXPropellant-10Dec2019-Conclusions}
===========

The test did not provide the required outcome and the puck did not
ignite. As a suggestion, iron oxide could be added and the nichrome
should be increased in size with a larger power source.
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
