::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Manufacturing](Manufacturing_142271214.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Woodworking ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Harradence, William]{.author}, last modified by [
Sokolowski, Rafal]{.editor} on Dec 20, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
Wood is very useful when you need something relatively big in any
dimension because it's cheap. It's also very easy to work by hand. 

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

Wood is either timber, i.e a literal piece of tree, or manufactured
board which is a composite of timber/timber chips/dust/other waste and
some form resin. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

With timber there is hardwood, such as oak, beech and ash (and balsa
wood! The names aren't entirely accurate!), and softwood- for example
pine, larch and yew. [Essentially hardwoods come from your broadleaf
trees with big proud branches and majestic leafs that make your garden
look hideous on a wet, cloudy autumn afternoon, while softwood comes
from coniferous trees, evergreen, needle-leafed, with so many branches
on the trunk it's clear they're compensating for
something. ]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

[\
]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

[What this means is softwoods are absolutely littered with knots (places
where a branch has joined with the trunk) which love to dry up and fall
out leaving holes. Hardwoods grow slower (more expensive) and are
usually denser (again, exceptions such as balsa) and hence
harder. ]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

[\
]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

[Working with timber is easy, but it's important to keep track of where
anything is actually square, because timber is extremely anisotropic and
will warp as it dries or takes on moisture. So if you ever really care
about the precise shape of your piece, first cut an edge with a bandsaw
(using the alignment rail) to declare that as your starting point for
all measurements. This also applies for manufactured board because you
just can't trust whether someone cut it straight in the first
place. ]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

[\
]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

Manufactured boards include MDF, plywood, chipboard and many others.
Chipboard is the vomit inducing stuff they make your school desks out of
that you see when the veneer/plastic edge cover comes off. MDF is
compressed wood dust mixed with resin; it is very dense and is roughly
isotropic, so it's hard to set alight and super duper convenient to work
with, and you don't need to worry about it warping. Plywood is made up
of unravelled sections of leg arranged in a composite laminate with
alternating grain directions, hence the surfaces are still hard and the
it not only doesn't warp but doesn't really expand much with humidity
anyway. The resin content is pretty high however and this can make it
flammable so keep it away from direct fires. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

You may yet come to love the flexibility, ease and availability of
material when working with wood and decide to buy a woodworking plane.
For some reason, some people have hundreds of them in their workshops
and I think it looks really silly. Unless they're collections, some
places have little souvenir or decorative planes and I find that
adorable. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

PS: Don't smell the freshly cut plywood, it's bad for you of course, I
have no idea why they let it smell so good. 

</div>
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
