::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Propulsion Team](Propulsion-Team_142270885.html)
4.  [Major Subsystems](Major-Subsystems_142273528.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Engine ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
===========================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Harradence, William]{.author}, last modified by [ Nzsdejan,
Hajk]{.editor} on Nov 30, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
Ignition {#Engine-Ignition}
========

Potential Modes of Ignition {#Engine-PotentialModesofIgnition}
---------------------------

-   Black Powder (with Potential Extra Oxygen Line)

Black powder (gun powder) would be distributed around the top of the
fuel grain in plastic canisters with a cardboard \'hopper\' to stop the
canisters from falling down the centre of the engine. A car battery or
alternative power source (even a 9V battery could be used) would then
allow an electric match to ignite the black powder. If the canisters
were ignited in a series, the time allowed between its ignition and the
oxidiser flowing through the injector would increase (allowing for more
consistent ignition). Also considered the possibility of an extra oxygen
line to feed the ignition systems separately, however, this was deemed
too complex due to the requirement for an extra oxidiser supply.

-   Ammonium Perchlorate with a fuel

This is typically used in modern solid-propellant rocket motors. The
ammonium perchlorate is used as the primary oxidiser and it is paired
with a high energy fuel (aluminium for high performance). A low energy
fuel, such as [Hydroxyl-terminated
polybutadiene](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydroxyl-terminated_polybutadiene){.external-link}[ (HTPB) ]{style="color: rgb(34,34,34);"}acts
as a binder. These substances are combined into a pellet. The pellets
can be distributed in a similar way to the plastic canisters of black
powder mentioned above.

[Most formulations have a burn rate between 1--3 mm/s
at ]{style="color: rgb(34,34,34);"}[STP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_conditions_for_temperature_and_pressure "Standard conditions for temperature and pressure"){.external-link}[ and
6--12 mm/s at 68 atm. This suggests that given enough pellets a burn of
more than 1 second can easily be achieved hence a long enough time for
the oxidiser and solid fuel to combust.]{style="color: rgb(34,34,34);"}

[This form of ignition works very well in theory but the pellets need to
be held in place securely since during a prior test-fire the pellets
were displaced by the nitrous flow.]{style="color: rgb(34,34,34);"}

-   Nitrocellulose

Highly flammable substance. Nitrocellulose can be used in the form of a
capsule (such as the aforementioned ammonium perchlorate) or can be used
in the form of a cotton swab. A potential problem excluding its
volatility is the fact that nitrocellulose will burn through in about
35ms
(<http://www.wydawnictwa.ipo.waw.pl/cejem/vol_14_No_2_Early_View/Kuracina.pdf>).
This is a very short burn time which means that the ignition of the
nitrous and solid fuel will be difficult.

-   Solid Rocket Motor (Disassembled)

Similar to the black powder method but the \'pellets\' will be extracted
from COTS solid rocket motors in their packaging.

Results from TFE-1 \"Pablo\" {#Engine-ResultsfromTFE-1\"Pablo\"}
----------------------------

\

Results from Test Fire December 2019 {#Engine-ResultsfromTestFireDecember2019}
------------------------------------

TBF (To be fired)

\

Final Decision {#Engine-FinalDecision}
--------------

\
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
