::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Electronics & Payload Team](142271011.html)
4.  [Hardware](Hardware_149336894.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Ground Test Board ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
======================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Kacker, Shreeyam]{.author}, last modified on Dec 20, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
[This hardware has been obseleted. Please use the [DAQ](DAQ_149333859.html) ]{style="color: rgb(255,0,0);"}[instead.]{style="color: rgb(255,0,0);"} {#GroundTestBoard-Thishardwarehasbeenobseleted.Pleaseusetheinstead.}
===================================================================================================================================================

Guide for the ground tasdte board made by Luis:

\

1.  On the code for the microcontroller set the correct "ssid" and
    "password" for the network you will connect the mcu to. If you
    don\'t want to change the code on the mcu just set your hotspot\'s
    name to \"iPhone de Luís\" and your hotspot\'s password to
    \"yeetyeet\" and it should work.
2.  After setting the right networking information upload the code to
    the MCU. To do so connect the MCU to your laptop via usb and select
    the correct "board" on the IDE you'll be using. Select the port the
    device is connected on. During upload, when connection fails press
    reboot repeatedly until it works.
3.  After the uploading is done open the serial monitor. Set "baud rate"
    to 115200 and press the reset (EN) pin on the mcu. It will try to
    connect to the wifi you set on the code (it may take some time).
4.  After it successfully connects an IP address should appear. Make
    sure your laptop is connected to the network as the mcu and enter
    the ip as the "url" on the browser of your choice.
5.  A button should appear to change the current state of the e-match.
    (To troubleshoot the e-match, there will be a parallel led in
    place).
6.  Before activating it, move 5 feet away and dab for good luck.
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
