::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Propulsion Team](Propulsion-Team_142270885.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Engine Test Stand  ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
=======================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Sokolowski, Rafal]{.author}, last modified on Dec 20, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
<div>

G.L.E.I.P.N.I.R-RaR/RMS (Short form Gleipnir) is made up of a sled and a
load cell stand both fixed to a large board and is designed for
horizontal firing. The engine fits in the sled, supported radially but
almost frictionless in the axial direction and at least at the moment
the design is to have the load cell fixed to the engine's injector
head. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

It is held together, mostly, [by T-nuts gripping the inner surface of
the aluminium 80/20 extrusions it is made out of. When tightening these
nuts, a visual inspection of the nut is required to ensure that it has
been tightened in the perpendicular position rather than fitting snugly-
but uselessly- parallel to the slot (this can sometimes happen due to
slight misalignments in the joints obstructing the nut from turning into
the locked position. ]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

The ultimate strength of these T-nut joints has not been tested, but it
has been observed that using 2 of them is enough to take the weight of
an adult male, at least.\

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

The sled part can move about 5-10 cm, far more than it ever needs to but
make sure it is not at the very end of this range in the loading
direction when it is being assembled for a test fire. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

For adjustment to fit a different engine, the sled can be adjusted by
loosening the t nuts, shifting the bars and around and tightening again,
as well as printing new top supports (Preferably ABS), which are based
around sections of the circumference of the engine, leaving a gap on top
so that the engine is ultimately supported from the top by the aluminium
bar in the event that the printed supports break). [the bottom supports
are very sturdy, all purpose triangles made of fire retardant MDF and
don't need alteration. ]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

[\
]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

If the engine is long enough then the load cell stand will need to be
moved back, which means new bolt holes (there are 5 fixing it to the
board) for it will need to be drilled with a power drill. Simply trace
the existing bolt holes backward; they are arranged in a V shape so you
can move them back without any issues.

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

For use in the field, find/produce a level surface on the ground and
stake the board into the soil through the 4 corner holes. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

And if you are ever in doubt of the strength of the structure, add more
brackets and T-nuts. 

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

To do: 

</div>

<div>

1\) Test ultimate strength of T-nut joint; potentially use hydraulic
press? 

</div>

<div>

2\) Acquire tap and die to cut threads into some members for safer
fixing.

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

\* God Let Everything Inside Please Not Implode, Research,
Reconnaissance & Recreation, Reaction Measurement System

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

<div>

[\
]{style="font-size: 17.0px;"}

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

</div>

</div>
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
