::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
3.  [Electronics & Payload Team](142271011.html)
4.  [Test Logs](Test-Logs_149336890.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : 17HD34008-22B Stepper Motor Test ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
=====================================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Bella, Daniele V]{.author}, last modified on Dec 10, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
::: {.contentLayout2}
::: {.columnLayout .two-equal layout="two-equal"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
General Information {#id-17HD34008-22BStepperMotorTest-GeneralInformation}
===================

Members present {#id-17HD34008-22BStepperMotorTest-Memberspresent}
---------------

-   Palash Mattoo

-   Shreeyam Kacker

-   Luis Marques de Silva

-   Daniele Bella
:::
:::

::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Equipment Used {#id-17HD34008-22BStepperMotorTest-EquipmentUsed}
--------------

-   Arduino Mega 2560

-   A4988 motor driver

-   100 micro Farad capacitor

-   17HD34008-22B Stepper motor

-   Breadboard and jumper wires

-   ISO-Tech DC power supply

-   Powerfist DT-838 Generic crappy multimeter
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Results {#id-17HD34008-22BStepperMotorTest-Results}
=======

09 Dec 2019  {#id-17HD34008-22BStepperMotorTest-}
------------

Stepper motor was found to work.

[Stepper motor was run at 15V, and was using
0.18A.]{style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;"}

[In the code, found in the next section, we set the amount of motor
steps to 400, with 8 microsteps.]{style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;"}

[Minimum delay between steps: 12 micro seconds. Calculating the rotation
using this, leads to around 1562.5 RPM. However, this is not what is
seen from the motor, meaning that the arduino has additional delays when
changing the voltage.]{style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;"}

[Easy to stall at these conditions, clicking frequently. Can be stalled
by measuring voltage with a multimeter.]{style="letter-spacing: 0.0px;"}

6.43V read between single wire going into the motor and the ground using
standard multimeter.

10 Dec 2019  {#id-17HD34008-22BStepperMotorTest-.1}
------------

Stepper motor stepping was found using an oscilloscope, by measuring the
frequency output of the arduino. The same code was used as yesterday.

The measured step lasted **39.33 micro seconds. **This is a lot longer
than the delay in the code, showing that the arduino has significant
overhead when writing digital pins.
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
