::: {#page}
::: {#main .aui-page-panel}
::: {#main-header}
::: {#breadcrumb-section}
1.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki](index.html)
2.  [ICL Rocketry Wiki Home](ICL-Rocketry-Wiki-Home_142270843.html)
:::

[ ICL Rocketry Wiki : Propulsion Team ]{#title-text} {#title-heading .pagetitle}
====================================================
:::

::: {#content .view}
::: {.page-metadata}
Created by [ Sokolowski, Rafal]{.author}, last modified by [ Horton,
William]{.editor} on Nov 30, 2019
:::

::: {#main-content .wiki-content .group}
::: {.contentLayout2}
::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
One of the original teams founded in November 2018. Currently headed by
ICLR founder Will Harradence. Propulsion team is responsible for the
design and testing of the hybrid propulsion system (not including any
COTS propulsion systems) comprising the ground filling station, nitrous
tank, filling system, feed system, throttle control system, and engine
itself, as well as any complimentary items, such as fuel casting rigs
and testing rigs.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Sub teams {#PropulsionTeam-Subteams}
=========

\

<div>

For the original task of designing a throttled hybrid engine for a
sounding rocket the team was split into:

</div>

<div>

\

</div>

<div>

1.  **Storage and Refuelling:** Responsible for design, manufacture and
    testing of the nitrous oxide fuelling and storage systems, including
    the ground filling station, run tanks
2.  **Throttle control:** Responsible for the design, manufacture and
    testing of the throttle control system and feed system.
3.  **Injector/Ignition:** Responsible for the design, manufacture and
    testing of the injector assembly and ignition system.
4.  **Combustion:** Responsible for the design, manufacture and testing
    of the combustion chamber, fuel grain, and associated parts.
5.  **Nozzle:** Responsible for the design, manufacture and testing of
    the nozzle assembly.

See [Major Subsystems](Major-Subsystems_142273528.html) for a list and
descriptions of the subsystems described here.

</div>

<div>

\

</div>
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
Hybrid engine designs {#PropulsionTeam-Hybridenginedesigns}
=====================

TFE-1 'Pablo' {#PropulsionTeam-TFE-1‘Pablo’}
-------------

The very first engine developed by ICLR from November 2018-June 2019.
This engine was intended as a proof of concept for a throttlable
paraffin/nitrous oxide hybrid. Specification was based on current
estimates for the thrust needed to fly a low velocity trajectory, as
well as the available testing facilities. Pablo was first tested on 24th
May, 2019, and the test cell at the University of Hertfordshire.
Following unsuccessful attempts to ignite the engine, 1 burn was
completed on this date, and data was collected showing a steady state
thrust of about 40N.

Specifications:

-   600mm length
-   50mm diameter 
-   80 bar (?) tank pressure
-   30 bar chamber pressure 
-   350N max thrust 
-   Mach 2.6 exhaust velocity at sea level

\
Propellants were Paraffin wax and Nitrous Oxide.

### TFE-1B 'Balthazar' {#PropulsionTeam-TFE-1B‘Balthazar’}

\
A conceptual upgrade to Pablo featuring a bell nozzle.

### TFE-1C 'Conestantine' {#PropulsionTeam-TFE-1C‘Conestantine’}

\
A slightly modified version of Pablo that was successfully test fired at
the university of Hertfordshire in June 2019 where a problematic
relationship between ignition and injection was highlighted. Equipped
with a conical diverging nozzle, however without a converging section\

### TFE-1D \'Conestantine XL\' {#PropulsionTeam-TFE-1D'ConestantineXL'}

\

Adds a post-combustion chamber to the Constantine.

\
:::
:::
:::

::: {.columnLayout .single layout="single"}
::: {.cell .normal type="normal"}
::: {.innerCell}
\
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {#footer role="contentinfo"}
::: {.section .footer-body}
Document generated by Confluence on Dec 21, 2019 10:27

::: {#footer-logo}
[Atlassian](http://www.atlassian.com/)
:::
:::
:::
:::
